FIX: Update and cleanup the peer review section of our guide (#148)
pyOpenSci/peer-review-guide: about-peer-review/pyopensci-related-joss-ropensci.md

# How Are JOSS, rOpenSci and pyOpenSci Related? 

pyOpenSci works closely with both [rOpenSci](https://www.ropensci.org) and
[the Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org/). 

* rOpenSci is a sister organization that directly inspired pyOpenSci. 
* JOSS is a journal and a publisher that provides a way for developers of 
research software to get academic credit for their work. 

The JOSS review process is about publication. A review from JOSS will provide 
you with a citable, [Crossref digital object identifier (DOI)](https://www.crossref.org/). 
pyOpenSci aligns closely with the broad mission of 
JOSS to provide maintainers with credit for their open source work. However, 

> our mission is also more focused. pyOpenSci not open source maintainers getting academic credit for their work. We also support:

Author: yes!

> our mission is also more focused. pyOpenSci not open source maintainers getting academic credit for their work. We also support:

Author: ```suggestion
our mission is also more focused. pyOpenSci is not just about open source maintainers getting academic credit for their work. We also support:
```

* enforcement and encouragement of Python-specific packaging standards across tools; 
* and curated lists of peer reviewed, and maintained Python scientific software.

## How is review at pyOpenSci different from the JOSS review process? 

We are not a typical publisher or journal. Rather we are a community that provides support for both a diverse group of software maintainers and long term maintenance of our packages. 

The pyOpenSci review process is different from that of JOSS in a few ways: 

1. Our review is specifically design to enforce modern, community-accepted best practices for Python packaging. 
1. We place heavy emphasis on documentation and usability in our reviews and associated standardization of both. 
1. We build community around and visibility for its tools. 
1. We will promote packages and package maintainers once they are accepted into our ecosystem. 
1. We support long term maintenance of packages. If the maintainer needs to step down, we will ensure a new maintainer takes over OR sunset and remove the package from our ecosystem. 
1. We provide a welcoming forum for you to ask questions and get help with maintaining your package as needed. 

> JOSS reviews are also [more limited in scope](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html) 

Author: ```suggestion
JOSS reviews are also [more limited in scope](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submitting.html?highlight=scope#submission-requirements) 
```

> JOSS reviews are also [more limited in scope](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html) 

Author: ```suggestion
JOSS reviews are also [more limited in scope](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submitting.html?highlight=scope#submission-requirements) 
```

Author: Github is doing weird things today but i did fix this locally.

compared to pyOpenSci. Some of the
[JOSS submission criteria](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html) 
are, in places, less stringent or less specific to the Python programming 
language than those of pyOpenSci.

## You can improve your package with a review at pyOpenSci and still publish in JOSS

You don't have to chose between pyOpenSci and JOSS; You can submit your package to both.

pyOpenSci and JOSS are complementary, partner organizations. You don't have 

> to chose one or the other! After a package to pyOpenSci has been reviewed and 

Author: your suggestions are great!! thanks so much! 👐

accepted by pyOpenSci you can also choose to register it with JOSS. 

JOSS has [more limited scope](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html) 
for packages that it will review. For instance, while pyOpenSci will review 
and accept API wrappers, JOSS won't. 

If your package is accepted by pyOpenSci and in scope for JOSS, JOSS will fast 
track your package through their review process given it was already reviewed by us. 

> You do not need to go through two reviews! 

Author: @arianesasso i added that just for you :)
